discord is a program that allows you to program binaural and
chronaural beats with great flexibility and mixed with sound files of
your choice.  The flexibility requires some complexity.  There is a
learning curve.  Use the test script files as templates and experiment
with changing the variables to see the effects.  There is a help file
in text and html format and a man page.

This was developed on a Fedora Core 6/7 linux system.  It requires
libsndfile and libsamplerate.  If your distro does not provide them,
go to http://www.mega-nerd.com for the latest versions.  The library
libFLAC must be present for libsndfile to have FLAC capability.  If it
was compiled without the library present and you try to use FLAC, discord
will abort saying unable to open file.

To unpack:
tar -jxvf discord-1.#.#.tar.bz2

Change to the directory discord-1.#.#.

To compile:
./mkd

It should be a clean compile. 

Install manually wherever you want it.  Single executable, discord.
Alternatively, just run as ./discord.

A sample configuration file called .discordrc is provided for your
$HOME directory.  It allows you to have minimal script files, just the
sequences, if you want, using the options from the configuration file
to play.  

If discord compiles fine but won't run, look at one of the alsa-lib
workaround files included.  The html version is also available on the
discord project web site at sourceforge.net.  The short explanation is
that the alsa-lib version 1.0.14 final does not support floating point
formats.  As doubles are the format that discord uses, discord will
not work with alsa-lib 1.0.14.

If you want to port to another architecture, the engine should work
just fine.  However the dependencies on the sound system alsa will
have to be replaced and the pthread calls will have to be changed to
the threading model on the new platform.  Eliminating threading
completely should also work under light usage (< 10 voices?) if your
system is fast enough (> 500 MHz?).  libsndfile and libsamplerate are
compatible across multiple platforms.
