I won't go deeply into the theory of binaural and chronaural
(sometimes called monaural) beats.  You can search the web and come up
with all kinds of information about binaural beats.  Instead, I'll
offer two analogies.

The first is of a fruit tree.  Using binaural beats is like shaking a
fruit tree when the fruit is ripe.  If you shake it gently, a few
fruit at a time fall.  The harder you shake it, the more fruit fall.
Overwhelm is having too much fruit fall for you to pick up.  Shake
gently until you get good at catching fruit.  Eventually, no more
fruit falls when you shake.

The second is of combing.  Using binaural beats is like combing a
tangled mass of hair.  If you do it gently, you slowly work the
tangles out of the hair.  If you do it with too much force, you will
rip the hair from the scalp.  Comb gently.  Once the combing is done,
the hair has no more tangles.

It is said that Shakyamuni Buddha (called The Buddha in honor of his
attainment, the depth of his realization, even though there are
innumerable buddhas) taught 84,000 expedient methods during his life.
If there is a single "goal" (not two, not one), why would he have
taught so many methods?  If someone came on the shopping channel and
advertised a pair of shoes that would fit a foot of any size and shape
you would say "Get real!".  Yet when someone offers a spiritual path
that will fit all comers, no one blinks an eye, though the mind varies
much more than the foot.  What has all this to do with the theory of
binaural beats?  Just this.  Let your inner compass be your guide.  If
I say "Shake gently", and your inner compass says "Shake that sucker
so all the fruit falls off now!", do it!  Take the theory with a grain
of salt, you are unique.  
